A common gripe that students express is how much they feel the work they do in class fails to map to the real world. Now that you've had a chance to complete the portfolio project, how much better (or worse) do you think you understand software development and why?
I think I understand it better. Truly designing my own component of something I am passionate about helped me get a better understanding of the real-world process in back-end development.
Also, did the portfolio project surface any gaps in your own knowledge of software development. If so, what are those gaps and how did you address them?
The portfolio project helped me recognize my gaps in writing more organized and formal code. I ensured proper variable names, checked for magic numbers, and reviewed all contracts in depth.
Finally, as a part of completing the portfolio project, to what extent has your perspective of software development changed, if at all? In other words, is software development something you still enjoy? If not, why not?
I absolutely still enjoy software development. Planning was the most fun. I am still solid in the fact that I like software development applied in other areas that I enjoy, rather than doing sole coding.
One of the challenges of completing the portfolio project is picking up a lot of skills on your own. Some of these skills are, of course, software skills. However, there are plenty of other skills you may have picked up through this process. Therefore, the first question is what skills did you pick up through this process?
Some skills I picked up were product design. I had never designed my own component, and really thinking about the specifics of everything, being precise, and also adapting my plan was pretty important.
Next, how has working on this project affected your career trajectory? In other words, do you now hate the topic you picked? Or, are you even more interested in it? Both outcomes are valuable to your personal development.
This portfolio project has solidified my interest in the area in which I made this component. It has deepened my understanding in this field, and has just made me appreciate the intersections of both fields.
Finally, consider the skills you've picked up and your current career trajectory. What are some things you could do to continue on your career trajectory? Also, who are some mentors you could contact to help you stay on your path?
Some skills I picked up are organization and planning. I need help in those areas and ensuring that my goals are realistic in the time given to me, as I can be overly ambitious many times.